6 minutes English.
From BBCLearningEnglish.com.
Hello, this is 6 minute English from BBCLearningEnglish.
I'm Neil.
And I'm Georgie.
So Georgie, I'd like to know if you have any brothers or sisters and
if you get on well with them.
Yes, I do.
I have a sister and we get on very well.
We didn't use to, but now that we're adults, we get on well.
Well, in this program we'll be discussing one of the closest relationships there is.
The connection between sisters.
We'll hear from three Irish sisters,
reuniting on a radio show.
And from a psychotherapist on some stereotypes about sisterhood.
Plus we'll be learning some useful new vocabulary too.
And remember if you want to read along while you listen,
you can find the script for this program on our website.
BBCLearningEnglish.com.
Yeah, great idea.
Now, whether you have one or not,
our history and culture is full of sisters.
From the fairy tale of Cinderella and her ugly sisters
to tennis players, Venus and Serena Williams.
And currently two sisters, Ellie and Rachel Reeves,
a senior ministers in the British government.
So Neil, my question for you is this.
What is Rachel Reeves' government job?
Is she A, home secretary?
B, foreign secretary?
Or see, Chancellor of the Exchequer?
Well, I think the answer is C,
the Chancellor of the Exchequer,
which is the name for the finance minister in the UK.
Okay, Neil, we'll find out if that's the correct answer later in the program.
Newlomer Govon, the presenter of BBC Radio 4's Woman's Hour,
has two sisters.
The vote, Liv and Ireland, so they're joining me on a video call.
Hello, island. Hello, Vera.
Welcome to Woman's Hour.
Hello. Hello. Hi.
Newlomer was born in Dublin and moved to New York,
then London to work as a journalist,
while her two sisters stayed in Ireland.
Here she introduces her older sister, Vera and younger sister,
Ileen, for a BBC Radio 4 women's hour special about sisterhood.
Newlomer was a little worried what her sisters would say about her on the radio.
So let's listen in and find out.
Ileen, what would you say if you were described by relationship as sisters?
Very connected, I think, and we do get on very well, which I'm proud to say.
Yes, I'm sorry.
I'm going to put you on the spot, Vera.
What word would you use to describe me as a sister?
I couldn't give you word, but you definitely marched to your own drum.
What would that word be?
Independent, definitely.
You liked to control the situation.
Ileen thinks she gets on with her sisters.
To get on with someone means to like them and have a good relationship with them.
Newlomer puts her older sister on the spot,
by asking Vera to describe her in one word.
When you put someone on the spot, you make them answer a difficult question then and there.
Sometimes making them embarrassed or uncomfortable.
But Newlomer didn't need to worry what her sisters would say.
Vera simply said that Newlomer marches to her own drum.
She does things in her own way, which may be different from how other people do things.
It seems Vera and Nula and Ileen have remained close friends as they've grown up.
But the relationship between older, middle and younger sisters isn't always so harmonious.
Let's listen to BBC Radio 4's Women's Hour Special Program,
as Nula is joined by Psychotherapist Jennifer Glettill.
Thank you very much to Ileen and Vera, what a treat to have a chat with my sisters about
sisters.
I want to bring in Jennifer here who's listening to it all.
Some of the stereotypes around siblings that the elder sister is bossy.
The middle sister is a peacemaker and the little sister is spoiled.
That is not applying to our family.
But I'm wondering is there any substance about it or why does that even get bandied around?
We love giving people labels.
We like to put people into catargoes and then we can make sense of behaviours.
That actually, since then, scientists find no proof of being these roles in the families.
Nula discusses stereotypes about siblings.
A word that means either brother or sister.
One stereotype is that the older sister is usually bossy.
She enjoys telling people what to do.
Another stereotype is that the younger sister is spoiled.
If you describe a child as spoiled, you mean they are allowed to do anything they want,
often with the result that they behave badly.
What do you think about these stereotypes, Georgie?
Are they true for you and your sister?
I'm not sure I agree with these stereotypes because the older sister is meant to be bossy,
but my younger sister is the bossy one.
I don't think I'm bossy at all.
Well that's interesting.
Jennifer did say that there's no scientific proof.
Anyway, it's time now to find out the answer to your question, Georgie.
Yes, and my question was, what is Rachel Reeves' government job?
And you guessed she was the chancellor of the ex-checker, which was the correct answer.
Well done, Neil.
Hooray!
Okay, let's recap the vocabulary we've learned in this program.
Starting with the phrasal verb, get on with someone, meaning to have a good relationship with them.
If you put someone on the spot, you cause them embarrassment by forcing them to answer a difficult question at that very moment.
If you march to your own drum, you do things in your own unique way, regardless of how other people do them.
A sibling can mean either a brother or sister.
People who are bossy and joy telling other people what to do.
And finally, a spoiled child is allowed to do whatever they want, becoming badly behaved as a result.
Once again, our six minutes are up, but remember to head over to BBCLearningEnglish.com,
where you can find loads more fun and helpful resources, including a worksheet and quiz for this program.
Bye for now.
Goodbye.